EMAIL-CONFIG.md, before:

# Email Configuration Guide

## Email Configuration Requirements

The komoot application uses FastMail for sending verification emails and password reset notifications. This guide explains how to configure the email settings.

## Required Environment Variables

The application expects the following environment variables to be set:

```
EMAIL_HOST=smtp.fastmail.com
EMAIL_PORT=587
EMAIL_USERNAME=your_username
EMAIL_PASSWORD=your_app_password
EMAIL_FROM=noreply@yourdomain.com
```

## FastMail Configuration

1. Create a FastMail account if you don't have one already
2. Generate an App Password (don't use your main FastMail password)
   - Log into FastMail
   - Go to Settings > Password & Security
   - Under "App Passwords", create a new password for this application
   - Use this password for the EMAIL_PASSWORD environment variable

## Development Setup

For local development, create a `.env` file in the `backend` directory:

```
EMAIL_HOST=smtp.fastmail.com
EMAIL_PORT=587
EMAIL_USERNAME=your_username
EMAIL_PASSWORD=your_app_password
EMAIL_FROM=noreply@yourdomain.com
```

## Production Setup

For Docker Swarm production deployment:

1. In Portainer, navigate to your stack
2. Add the environment variables under "Environment variables"
3. Or use secrets for sensitive information like passwords

## Testing Email Configuration

You can test the email configuration using the script:

```python
from email_utils import send_email

# Test email sending
send_email(
    recipient_email="test@example.com",
    subject="Test Email",
    body="This is a test email from the komoot app."
)
```

## Troubleshooting

If emails are not being sent:

1. Check the application logs for SMTP errors
2. Verify that the environment variables are correctly set
3. Ensure your FastMail account allows sending from the EMAIL_FROM address
4. Check if the app password is still valid
5. Verify that port 587 is not blocked by any firewall

## Rate Limits

FastMail has rate limits on sending emails. For high-volume sending, consider:

1. Monitoring your email sending rates
2. Implementing a queue system for email delivery
3. Contacting FastMail support for rate limit increases if needed

Commit message:

feat: Update email configuration guide to reflect SMTP usage and generalize provider instructions

EMAIL-CONFIG.md, after:

# Email Configuration Guide

## Email Configuration Requirements

The komoot application uses SMTP for sending verification emails and password reset notifications. This guide explains how to configure the email settings.

## Required Environment Variables

The application expects the following environment variables to be set:

```
EMAIL_HOST=smtp.example.com
EMAIL_PORT=587
EMAIL_USERNAME=your_username
EMAIL_PASSWORD=your_password
EMAIL_FROM=noreply@yourdomain.com
```

## Email Provider Configuration

1. Choose an email service provider that supports SMTP
2. Configure your account for application access
   - Many providers require generating an app-specific password
   - Follow your provider's security guidelines
   - Use the generated password for the EMAIL_PASSWORD environment variable

## Development Setup

For local development, create a `.env` file in the `backend` directory:

```
EMAIL_HOST=smtp.example.com
EMAIL_PORT=587
EMAIL_USERNAME=your_username
EMAIL_PASSWORD=your_password
EMAIL_FROM=noreply@yourdomain.com
```

## Production Setup

For production deployment:

1. In your container orchestration platform (Docker Swarm, Kubernetes, etc.)
2. Add the environment variables to your service configuration
3. For sensitive information like passwords, use secrets management
4. Ensure the configuration is consistent across all service replicas

## Testing Email Configuration

You can test the email configuration using the script:

```python
from email_utils import send_email

# Test email sending
send_email(
    recipient_email="test@example.com",
    subject="Test Email",
    body="This is a test email from the komoot app."
)
```

## Troubleshooting

If emails are not being sent:

1. Check the application logs for SMTP errors
2. Verify that the environment variables are correctly set
3. Ensure your email provider allows sending from the EMAIL_FROM address
4. Check if your password or app-specific password is still valid
5. Verify that the specified port is not blocked by any firewall

## Rate Limits

Most email providers have rate limits on sending emails. For high-volume sending, consider:

1. Monitoring your email sending rates
2. Implementing a queue system for email delivery
3. Checking with your provider about rate limits for your account type
4. Using a dedicated transactional email service for higher volumes
